PREVIOUS EXERCISE INSTRUCIONS: Expenses Tracker App Part1 (25%)
⚠
You are not allowed to use any CSS or JS for Exercise 2 and 3, except the few properties displayed in lecture (e.g. color, font
size, font-weight), if you must. You will add CSS in the next assignment, but the focus of this one is to learn to write good HTML.
The core of the assignment is tracking and calculating a balance between two or more parties via expense app. This year to freshen things
up a bit I using the same concept as below but can be modified as a new app theme with one of the following:
1. Roommate Expense Tracker: A common and relatable scenario for students. The app could track shared expenses like rent, utilities,
and groceries. The wireframe could include different roommates' names and a running tally of who owes whom.
2. Trip Expense Splitter: This theme involves a group of friends on a trip. The app would track expenses paid by different people for
shared activities, meals, or accommodation. This adds a layer of complexity since there could be more than two people, requiring
students to consider how to handle multiple balances.
3. Small Business Partnership: Two or more partners in a business need to track shared expenses and investments. This theme could
introduce more formal language and scenarios, such as tracking business travel, supplies, or marketing costs.
Concept Idea: Neo and Trinity live together as a couple but prefer to maintain separate finances. Each of them has their own bank account
and personal credit card, but they also share a joint credit card. They use the joint credit card to pay for shared expenses and split the bill
equally at the end of each month.
However, this plan doesn't always work out. Sometimes one partner may pay for joint expenses with their personal card, or pay for personal
expenses with the joint card. This can happen for various reasons, such as a more advantageous points program on the joint credit card or a
temporary lack of funds.
To keep track of these anomalies, the currently use a 
spreadsheet that tracks who owes whom what. The spreadsheet is organized in columns
based on how each transaction affects the total balance, such as "Trinity paid for Joint (expense)" and "Joint card paid for Neo" being in the
same column because they both add half (i.e., X/2 where X is the amount) to the total balance. keep track of these “anomalies” to know who
owes whom what.
Task 1: Usability problems with their current method (10%)
3/9
https://doit.ub.edu.bz/mod/assign/view.php?id=6198&action=editsubmission
8/21/26, 3:25 PM
CMPS3141: Assignment 1 - AS1-HTML - Edit submission
Copy the spreadsheet over and play around with it a bit.
What is the most important usability dimension for this app?
What usability problems can you detect with this method?
These may be problems inherent in using spreadsheets for these kinds of tasks, or problems with the design of this particular spreadsheet.
For each issue, note which dimension of usability (Learnability, Efficiency, Safety) it affects.
Task 2: Wireframe of app to help them manage expenses in a better way (15%)
As their usability minded friend who dabbles in web development, you are fed up watching them struggle with this spreadsheet, so you
decided to build an app for them.
Design an app that would help them manage these expenses without the issues of the spreadsheet. Wireframe the UI you have in mind with
HTML. That is, create an HTML document demonstrating what your app would look like after some representative data has been entered.
Include text, images, form fields with data in them, buttons, selectors, and other controls, but don't make them do anything yet.
Don't worry about CSS or implementation yet, your goal in this assignment is to design a good interface. You will implement it in the next
assignment. Also don't worry about painting yourself into a corner: you will be able to change any design decisions later on, so feel free to
be creative and design a UI that you think would be great.

CONTINUATION INSTRUCTION FOR UPDATING EXERCISE: Couple Expenses App Implementation (60%)
It is now time to implement an app for the expenses problem we explored in HW1. This time, you have also learned a little bit of CSS, and
you can also use that in your prototype.
You don't need to use any of the HTML you have wireframed in AS1, you can (and likely should) change your design decisions.
For this exercise I want you to think hard about the problem space, and create an innovative efficient interface that is tailored to the
problem, rather than adopting a design that is similar to other expenses apps out there that have different goals.
Your interface should make common use cases efficient, and uncommon use cases possible.
Your app should focus on being efficient for the most common cases. Neo and Trinity will use this all the time, and if it takes too long to
enter something, they are more likely to forget to enter it at all.
The most common cases are:
1. Neo or Trinity paid for a joint expense
2. The joint card paid for a personal expense of Neo's or Trinity's
3. Entering expenses retroactively (i.e. days or even weeks after they happened) is pretty common
4. Expenses are entered in BZD
For these cases, use KLM (discussed at the end of the Efficiency lecture) to reduce the number of keystrokes needed, and eliminate homing
between keyboard and mouse as much as possible. It should be possible to add a common type of expense without using the mouse at all,
and without more than five keystrokes (if that) to select payer and payee. You don't need to include your KLM analysis anywhere, this is to
help you make better design decisions.
3/6
https://doit.ub.edu.bz/mod/assign/view.php?id=6245
9/5/26, 10:27 PM
CMPS3141: Asignment 3 - AS3 - CSS & App Implementation
While efficiency is the focus of this exercise, learnability and safety still matter. It is acceptable to make some tradeoffs between
learnability and efficiency (since this is an app for specific users, built for their needs), but the interface cannot be entirely obscure. For
example, a UI where payer and payee is selected through pressing A-J for each of the 9 combinations may reduce selecting this info to a
single keystroke, but it is not an acceptable tradeoff, as it sacrifices too much learnability, and is not memorable as it relies entirely on
knowledge in the head.
While common cases are most important and the UI should be designed to optimize them, uncommon cases should still be possible to enter,
with reasonable efficiency. Uncommon cases you must support include the following:
1. Trinity and Neo went traveling. Some of their expenses are now in a different currency, however the total amounts owed still need to
be in BZD(the skeleton includes a rudimentary currencyConvert(from, to, amount) function for you — since this is a prototype
it's ok to only support BZD, MXN and GTQ currencies).
2. For some expenses, Trinity and Neo both paid unequal amounts. These expenses might be joint expenses, or they might be expenses
for just one person.
3. Some expenses don't change the amount of money one person owes the other. For example, Trinity and Neo might have split a joint
expense equally, or Trinity might have paid for an expense for herself. However, they still might want to record this expense in the
app for bookkeeping purposes so they know how much money they spent.
The design challenge you need to solve is how to 
accommodate these uncommon cases, while keeping the common cases as efficient as
possible. If you think of additional interesting uncommon cases, you may earn some bonus points, but you won't lose for supporting only
these.
Focus on the expense entering and editing UI and really think creatively about optimizing that, not on analytics, so don’t worry about charts
and other summary information (though of course you’re welcome to work on that as well, after you’re done, as extra credit)
The app should be fully functional, including storage.
You will be implementing this as a 
VueJS app, using the 
MaVue helpers if you want, or react. The skeleton repo includes an app that reads
and saves to GitHub, as well as the data from the spreadsheet in JSON format, though you need to modify the URL to that of your own repo
so you can save.
👉 🏼
Your app in the expenses/ directory of the starter repo. Since this is a design task, depending on your design, you may need to
modify index.js. If you do, don’t hesitate to reach out to ask about what JS would implement what you need to do. I am not grading you
on how you write JS, only on the interface you design